---
title:  "Binary Golf Grand Prix 3"
date:   2022-07-16 17:43:00 +0800
categories: [BGGP]
tags: [reversing, bggp]
---

# Introduction

This is the quick write-up for my BGGP #3 submission. I'm keeping this rather brief compared to my usual write-ups as
I'm in the middle of multiple activities at my day job which have been keeping me rather occupied.

The challenge description and rules can be found at [https://tmpout.sh/bggp/3/][bggp3].

# Objectives

The primary objective, is to find the smallest file that can crash a software. There are other rules as well that's
stated in the link above. Other notable objectives that should be mentioned is to manipulate/control the crash and
hijack the execution, and print/return 3.

# Target & environment

The target is GIMP 2.10.30. I didn't have the time to figure out how to fuzz. So I went with one of the recommendations
listed in the challenge, that is to browse for CVEs. I took the easy way out by listing the CVEs in descending date
order, searched for "crash", and went through each one to search for those that comes with a sample file. And that's
how I ended up with this target.

[https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp/-/issues/8120][gitlab]

The CVE details showed that the crash happened in Linux, but it's reproducable in Windows, which is the environment I'm
using. The bug is already fixed in the current release of GIMP, so I know I won't be getting the bonus points for
authoring the patch.

# Tools

* Disassembler - IDA Free 7.7 (reverse engineering is a hobby, so I can't convince myself to buy the Pro or Home version).
* Debugger - x64dbg

The source code for GIMP is also available at [https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp/-/tree/gimp-2.10][src], which I use as a 
reference to compare against the disassembly.

# Crash

After some debugging, I determined that the crash is due to a flaw in how GIMP parses malformed PROP_PATHS in the XCF
format. When PROP_PATHS is shortened, the XCF parser still reads the subsequent values without checking for validity.
Hence comes to a point where it reads the bad 'number of points' value from the malformed PROP_PATHS. The following 
value after 'number of points' is a version number. If the version number is 1, GIMP tries to allocate memory according
to 'number of points'. With the sample POC crash file, the output is as follows.

```
PS C:\projects\bggp3> &'C:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe' '.\poc for gimp_original'
Unknown path type. Possibly corrupt XCF fileC:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe: Gimp-XCF-WARNING: Maximum string length (16777216 bytes) exceeded. Possibly corrupt XCF file.
Unknown path type. Possibly corrupt XCF fileC:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe: Gimp-XCF-WARNING: Maximum string length (16777216 bytes) exceeded. Possibly corrupt XCF file.

(gimp-console-2.10.exe:10544): GLib-ERROR **: 23:02:28.111: ../glib-2.70.2/glib/gmem.c:142: failed to allocate 46068228096 bytes
C:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe: fatal error: unhandled exception

Gimp-Core-CRITICAL (recursed) **: gimp_item_get_ID: assertion 'GIMP_IS_ITEM (item)' failed
```

# Reducing

The original file size in the CVE crash is 644 bytes. Since I understood how the crash happened, I could reduce the size
by removing all the bytes that came after the version number. The POC crash file had 16 paths, and GIMP crashed after
reading the 3rd path. I could shorten this further to reduce the path quantity to 1. In the end, the smallest file
achieved is 67 bytes.

# Bonus

There are bonus points for the challenge if we can hijack the execution and manipulate the output after hijacking.
Unfortunately, I couldn't find any way to hijack the execution for this crash. I have never written any exploits before,
although I know the theory behind it. But after some quick research I concluded that there's no way to hijack the
execution of this crash (I may be wrong since I'm no expert in this).

Instead of hijacking, I tried to manipulate the output in a slightly different way. This probably won't earn me any
bonus points, but I thought it'll be interesting to try anyway.

Knowing that GIMP's error output mentions number of bytes that it was trying to allocate, I tried to manipulate this
instead by crafting the 'number of points' into the crash file. But the size per point is 0x18 bytes, so it's not 
possible to get a perfect string of 3's. Hence the closest I could get is the following.

```
PS C:\projects\bggp3> &'C:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe' .\bggp3crash

(gimp-console-2.10.exe:10772): GLib-ERROR **: 17:28:20.655: ../glib-2.70.2/glib/gmem.c:142: failed to allocate 33333333336 bytes
C:\Program Files\GIMP 2\bin\gimp-console-2.10.exe: fatal error: unhandled exception

Gimp-Core-CRITICAL (recursed) **: gimp_item_get_ID: assertion 'GIMP_IS_ITEM (item)' failed
```

# Outro

This will be my first (maybe last) submission for BGGP3. If I have time I'll try to learn fuzzing and pick up a new
target in which the execution can be hijacked.

[bggp3]: https://tmpout.sh/bggp/3/
[gitlab]: https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp/-/issues/8120
[src]: https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp/-/tree/gimp-2.10